# Markowitz_Efficient_Frontier_implementation_in_Python

## Efficient Frontier

Industry_Portfolios.xlsx contains monthly nominal (net) returns for ten industry portfolios (expressed as percentages, but without "%"), over the ten-year period from Jan 2004 through Dec 2013.

Use these returns to estimate the vector of mean returns and the covariance matrix of returns for the ten industry portfolios:

    Create a table showing the mean return and standard deviation of return for the ten industry portfolios.

    Plot the minimum-variance frontier (without the riskless asset) generated by the ten industry portfolios.

    This graph must have expected (monthly) return on the vertical axis vs standard deviation of (monthly) return on the horizontal axis.

    This graph must cover the range from 0% to 2% on the vertical axis, in increments of 0.1% (or less).

    Briefly explain the economic significance and relevance of the minimum-variance frontier to an investor.

Now suppose that the (net) risk-free rate is 0.13% per month:

    Plot the efficient frontier (with the riskless asset) on the same graph as the minimum-variance frontier generated by the ten industry portfolios.

    Briefly explain the economic significance and relevance of the efficient frontier to an investor.

The two frontiers will intersect at single point: the tangency portfolio:

    Calculate the Sharpe ratio for the tangency portfolio, and also the tangency portfolio weights for the ten industry portfolios.

    Briefly explain the economic significance and relevance of the tangency portfolio to an investor.

## Economic significance:

    Minimum-variance frontier represents outermost envelope of attainable portfolios ⇒ no attainable portfolio exists on the left of the minimum-variance frontier.

    Efficient frontier consists of portfolios with highest potential reward for given amount of risk ⇒ risk-averse investor must invest in (optimal) portfolio on efficient frontier to maximise expected utility.

    Tangency portfolio has the highest possible Sharpe ratio.
